[IMP] Inventory: Adjustments 18.0 (#11930)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/warehouses_storage/inventory_management/count_products.rst

Inventory adjustments
=====================

.. |Ia| replace:: Inventory adjustments
.. |ia| replace:: inventory adjustments

In any warehouse management system, the recorded inventory counts in the database might not always

> match the actual inventory counts in the warehouse. The discrepancy between the counts can be due to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
match the actual inventory counts in the warehouse. Discrepancy between counts can be due to
```

> damages, human errors, theft, or other factors. As such, inventory adjustments must be made to
> reconcile the differences, and ensure that the recorded counts in the database match the actual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
damage, human error, theft, or other factors. As such, inventory adjustments must be made to
reconcile the differences, and ensure that the recorded counts in the database match the actual
```

.. note::
   Only products with a quantity greater than zero are listed on the :guilabel:`Inventory
   Adjustments` page. To view product lines with zero current quantity, go to
   :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Reporting --> Stock`.

For each product line, the following information is listed:

- :guilabel:`Location`: the specific location in the warehouse where a product is stored. This
  column is **only** visible if :doc:`Storage Locations <use_locations>` are enabled.
- :guilabel:`Favorite`: identifies products that have been favorited.
- :guilabel:`Product`: the product whose quantity is listed on the inventory adjustment line.
- :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number`: the tracking identifier assigned to the specific product listed. It
  can contain letters, numbers, or a combination of both.

.. note::
   If a specific product has a quantity of more than `1.00` in stock, and more than one serial
   number, or lot number, assigned to it, each uniquely-identified product is displayed on its own
   product line with its own lot/serial number, displayed under the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number`
   column.

> - :guilabel:`Expiration Date`: the date on which the goods with this serial number may become
>   dangerous and should not be consumed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Expiration Date`: the date on which the goods with this serial number are due to expire.
```

Just changing this, since it's not just food- it could be epoxy or glues that might weaken or not bond well, or paint where it won't cure, or medicine that is weak or ineffective, but not necessarily dangerous. Just making this sound more generic since it can apply to non-ingestible items as well.

  this date will default to the 31st of December of the current year.
- :guilabel:`User`: the person assigned to the count in the database. This can either be the person
  physically counting the inventory, or applying the count in the database.

.. tip::
   Additional columns are hidden by default. To reveal these columns, click the
   :icon:`oi-settings-adjust` :guilabel:`(adjust)` icon to the far right of the form's top row, and

>    select any desired column to reveal by ticking the checkbox next to that option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   reveal any desired column by ticking the checkbox next to that option.
```

:guilabel:`On Hand Quantity`, the value in the :guilabel:`Difference` column is **red**. If the
quantities match, and have not been changed at all, no value appears in the :guilabel:`Difference`
column.

.. image:: count_products/difference-column.png
   :alt: Difference column on inventory adjustments page.

At this stage, the count (:dfn:`inventory adjustment`) is recorded, but not yet applied. This means
that the quantity on hand before the adjustment has not yet been updated to match the new, real
counted quantity.

.. _inventory/apply-adjustment:

Apply adjusted count
--------------------

|Ia| can be completed in several ways. The first way is to click the
:guilabel:`Apply` button on the line at the far right of the page. The second way is to tick the
checkbox on the far left of the line. Doing so reveals new button options at the top of the page,
one of which is an :guilabel:`Apply` button. Clicking this button instead causes an
:guilabel:`Inventory Adjustment` pop-up window to appear.

From this pop-up menu, a reference or reason can be assigned to the inventory adjustment. By

> default, the :guilabel:`Inventory Reason` field is pre-populated with the date the adjustment is
> being made on, but can be changed to reflect whatever reference or reason is desired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
default, the :guilabel:`Inventory Reason` field is pre-populated with today's date, the date the adjustment is
being made on, but can be changed to reflect whatever reference or reason is desired.
```
not sure if it is today, but might  be nice to call out

   <../reporting/moves_history>` in the *Moves History* report for traceability.

.. image:: count_products/apply-inventory-adjustment.png
   :alt: Apply all option applies the inventory adjustment once a reason is specified.

> Relocate products

Reviewer: Is this also a "Stock Move" or "Stock Moves". I know that's a term we always used in the factory at my old job- just throwing out that idea/option

=================

|Ia| can also be used to relocate products to different storage locations, or to
different packages. To relocate a product, tick the checkbox at the far left of the line for the
desired product. At the top of the page, click the :guilabel:`Relocate` button. Doing so opens a
pop-up.

.. image:: count_products/relocate_popup.png
   :alt: The Relocate products pop-up on the Inventory Adjustments page.

On the resulting pop-up, enter the following information:

- :guilabel:`To Location`: the new location for the products.
- :guilabel:`To Package`: the new package for the products.
- :guilabel:`Reason for relocation`: the reason for the move.

.. important::

>    Product relocations **only** work on internal locations. Products cannot be moved between
>    companies. Only users with *Administrator* rights can perform product relocations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Product relocations **only** work on internal locations. Products **cannot** be moved between
   companies. 
   
   Only users with *Administrator* rights can perform product relocations.
```

Set to zero
===========

> |Ia| can also be used to clear inventory by setting the quantity to zero. To do this, tick the
> checkbox at the far left of the line for the desired product. At the top of the page, click the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Ia| can also be used to clear inventory counts by setting the quantity to zero. To do this, tick the
checkbox at the far left of the line for the desired product. At the top of the page, click the
```

:icon:`fa-gear` :guilabel:`Actions` button to open a drop-down menu. Click :guilabel:`Set to 0`.
Once this is complete, :ref:`apply <inventory/apply-adjustment>` the adjusted count.

Count products
==============

Counting products is a recurring activity in a warehouse. Once a count is complete, go to
:menuselection:`Inventory app --> Operations --> Physical Inventory` to update the
:guilabel:`Counted Quantity` column for each product line.

On each product line, identify whether the value in the :guilabel:`On Hand Quantity` column recorded
in the database matches the newly-counted value. If the recorded value and the counted value do

> match, click the :icon:`fa-bullseye` :guilabel:`Set` icon at the far right of the product line.

Reviewer: Was trying to suggets removing "do" so it reads "If the recorded value and the counted value math....

  :guilabel:`Leave Empty`. To pre-fill the on-hand quantity of each product line with the current
  value recorded in the database, select :guilabel:`Set Current Value`.

> .. note::
>    The :guilabel:`Leave Empty` option forces the employee conducting the audit to manually type in
>    the number they counted, while the :guilabel:`Set Current Value` option only requires the
>    employee to *verify* the counted quantity and click :guilabel:`Apply`.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Leave Empty` option forces the employee conducting the audit to manually type in
   the counted number, while the :guilabel:`Set Current Value` option only requires the
   employee to *verify* the counted quantity and click :guilabel:`Apply`.

```Jiust wanted to remove "they" for whatever reason

Finally, once ready, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to request the count.

.. important::
   In the Odoo **Barcode** app, users can only view inventory counts that are assigned to **them**,

>    and are scheduled for **today** or **earlier**.

Reviewer: Not sure if we want all these bolds- maybe use italics? Unless these are fields ON a barcode form, in which case, would they get GUI labels?

Adjustment history
==================

Details regarding inventory adjustment can be viewed by clicking the :icon:`fa-history`
:guilabel:`History` icon.

The user who performed the count is listed in parenthesis in the :guilabel:`Reference` field, while
the user who applied the count is listed in the :guilabel:`Done By`.

.. image:: count_products/adjustment-history.png
   :alt: The history record for an inventory adjustment.

Inventory audit
---------------

An inventory audit can be accessed from the :guilabel:`Invetory Adjustment` page. This audit

> includes a record of the inventory before and after a count is completed to track what is changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
includes an inventory record both before and after a count is completed, to track what changed.
```

   employee to *verify* the counted quantity and click :guilabel:`Apply`.

Finally, once ready, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to request the count.

.. image:: count_products/count-popup.png
   :alt: Request a count popup on inventory adjustments page.

.. important::
   In the Odoo **Barcode** app, users can only view inventory counts that are assigned to *them*,
   and are scheduled for *today* or *earlier*.

   Sometimes a count occurs, but cannot be applied in the database right away. In the time between
   the actual count and applying the inventory adjustment, product moves can occur. In that case,
   the on-hand quantity in the database can change and no longer be consistent with the counted
   quantity. As an extra precaution, Odoo asks for confirmation before applying the inventory
   adjustment.

Adjustment history
==================

Details regarding inventory adjustment can be viewed by clicking the :icon:`fa-history`
:guilabel:`History` icon.

The user who performed the count is listed in parenthesis in the :guilabel:`Reference` field, while
the user who applied the count is listed in the :guilabel:`Done By`.

> 
> .. image:: count_products/adjustment-history.png
>    :alt: The history record for an inventory adjustment.

Reviewer 2: Please add this missing image file or remove this RST :)
```suggestion
```
